Enhance some cmdlets with Culture parameter (#167)
PowerShell/PowerShell-RFC: 1-Draft/RFC0000-RFC-Enhance-some-cmdlets-with-Culture-and-Ordinal.md

---
RFC: RFC0000
Author: Ilya Sazonov
Status: Draft
Area: Commands
Comments Due: 05/30/2019
---

> # `CurrenCulture` and comparisons

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# `CurrentCulture` and comparisons
```

> Historically, PowerShell has used `CurrenCulture` and case-insensetive in many places to make string comparisons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Historically, PowerShell has used `CurrentCulture` and case-insensitive in many places to make string comparisons.
```

Historically, PowerShell has only used linguistic (`CurrentCulture`) and case-insensitive in many places to make string comparisons.
Goal of the RFC is to add more flexibility and performance in cmdlets based on string comparison operations.

## Motivation

In some scenarios PowerShell users need to do string comparisons in different culture than current culture.

Also sometimes PowerShell users need to do non-linguistic, binary/ordinal, comparisons.

Such scenarios would be communicating with localized applications and searching in log files.

Users want to get performance comparable to utilites like `grep`, `egrep` and `ripgrep`.
In the RFC context it is achieved by `Ordinal` and `OrdinalIgnoreCase` C# string comparison.

## Specification

### Affected cmdlets

- `Compare-Object`
- `Group-Object`
- `Sort-Object`
- `Select-Object`
- `Select-String`

### Proposal

#### `Culture` parameter

Add `Culture` parameter to all affected cmdlets if absent.

`Culture` parameter accepts C# `CultureInfo` type, `Ordinal`, `Invariant` and `Current` values.
It is default parameter set for backward compatibility and default value is `Current` (C# `CurrentCulture`).

##### Samples

```powershell

> Select-String -Culture ru-RU -CaseSensitive      # lingustic as expected for Culture term

Reviewer 2: Can you add some of the examples you already have in the code PR tests as examples here?  Specifically looking to have both inputs and expected outputs.

Author: Done.
